Exercise 01
===========

Folder `tex` contains the LaTeX sources and outputs.
Folder `weighted-least-squares` contains the WLS code
Folder `optimization` contains the code for gradient descent and Newton's method.

## tex

Contains PDFs and source code for writeups.

## weighted-least-squares

Contains code for solving weighted least squares using 

    * LU factorization
    * Naive inversion
    * SciPy sparse solver

The intended use is to generate matrices `A` and `b` and their
dense equivalents with the following call to testsolve:

```python
    import testsolve
    (A,b,A_dense,b_dense) = testsolve.genTest(rows, columns, sparsity)
```

and then have the various solves timed in the interactive shell using iPython
`%timeit` magic.

Results are in the writeup in the `tex` directory.

## optimization

This code implements steepest descent in `steepestdescent.py` and Newton's
method in `newtonmethod.py`. The core of each module is a `solve` function
which takes in the input data and a few parameters and runs the appropriate
solver.

These codes are driven through `testOpt.py` and `testDummy.py`. `testOpt.py`
assumes that `wdbc.csv` is present in the current directory. It can switch between
methods by editing the last few lines in main to be either `steepestdescent.solve()`
or `newtonmethod.solve()`. I'm aware thie is pretty horrible, but I sort of ran out
of time to implement a nicer interface.

`testDummy.py` uses dummy test CSVs generated by genTestData.R. It's an internal
testing routine I use to ensure sanity of my results---by generating data
according to the distribution using known parameters, I can make sure my code
somewhat-recovers these parameters.
